Welcome to Angular 13 fundamentals.
Let's talk about the agenda.
And this is a kind of a loose narrative
arc simply because we have to cut these,
essentially these modules up into
videos for people to watch it,
for it to make sense.
But there's gonna be a little bit of a
dynamic element as you ask questions, and
start to answer them all.
It's not uncommon for me to even veer off
into some demo that I didn't even plan,
but it was important to somebody,
and so I was able to cover that.
So, the first thing we're gonna do,
we're gonna start up real slow.
I'm going to assume that everybody
here has a basic understanding
of programming JavaScript, HTML, CSS.
But I'm not going to assume any
prior experience with angular.
And so we're just gonna start out, and
lay that foundation with hello angular.
Then we're gonna get into component
fundamentals with templates,
and component classes, and
binding, and how that works.
Template driven forms,
angular services, server communication,
component driven architecture, which is
my one of my all time favorite modules.
And then we'll talk a bit
about angular routing, and
then we'll finish up with
unit testing fundamentals.
If you go to this link right here,
onehungrymindangular13-fundamentals-works-
hop.
You will find this repository.
Now the slides that you see,
if you look into the resources folder,
the slides are there.
And if I make any changes,
then obviously, I'll update them.
But there's some slides in there as well
as the challenges, and those may change.
But I have kinda of a loose set of
challenges that I want to work through
during the day, but most importantly
the slides are there for our reference.
And as well some of the slides I may
skip over or gloss over, because
I think in some cases it's easier to show
code versus just reading off of a slide.
But for I think study purposes in
reference purposes, that having a kind
of a well, kind of fleshed out slide
deck to go back and review is helpful.
And so that's why I've made the slides
available in the repository.
So please use that go make tons of money,
I approve.
And what we're going to be building is
a basic master detail view application.
So, if you've ever participated
in any of my other workshops,
this to me is the fundamental building
block of all enterprise applications,
really all applications across the board.
I believe is just a variation of
the master detail view interface.
And so what I mean by that is you will
have a master list of a collection.
And so in this case there's only one,
but you have a chorus, and
then you can select that, and
you can see the details for that item.
And so if you think about a basic email
application where you have all your
emails, you select one, you can read it,
that's a master detail view application.
As well as if anybody knows when you
start to build out a new framework, or
you're evaluating the new framework,
so if I was going to go, and
evaluate let's say, reactor view, or
something, I'm gonna check this out.
What is the quintessential hello world
application for JavaScript frameworks?
Well, it's the to-do list.
What is a to-do list?
It is nothing more than
a master detail view.
You have a master list
of your to-do items, and
then you can either add a to do item,
delete one, or modify it, and view it.
So I believe that this interface,
when I'm working with developers,
if I can get them to build
a well-architected, component-driven,
component-centric master
detail view application that
can communicate with a back
end API such as a RESTful API.
Once somebody can get to that place, and
they really understand those pieces,
I believe that they are well
equipped to really build,
really anything in terms of angular,
really any framework.
Because from there you're simply
iterating on ideas that you're already
familiar with.
So let me just escape out of here, and
I'll just show everybody
what this looks like.
So, in the repository itself,
I have created this main branch that
has kind of everything we're gonna get to,
as well as wherever I end up.
I'm more than likely going to push
this back into the main branch.
And so this is kinda a completed
version of the application.
And then I have one more branch here,
which is a start branch.
And so I've went ahead, and kinda
pre-populated some things, because this
is not by any means an HTML or CSS course,
there is plenty material for that.
So we're not going to spend time ironing
out, and building out HTML templates,
and different things.
So, just so that we can focus on being
as effective as possible, and spending
the most time getting repetitions that
matter when we start into our exercises.
We're going to start with the start
branch, and I've just done a little bit
of heavy lifting so
that we can focus on the main thing.
And just real quick so we can see
what this application looks like,
and where we're going,
we have a home route,
which then has some lessons for
a particular course.
And then what we're really
gonna be focusing on
is building out this course list here.
With that said,
I'm gonna just spin this up, and
we'll let this run, and
once this is completed, so
since I'm here, you saw that on
the command line I did npm start.
And we are actually, using, so
that we get a back end database.
I'm using a JSON server, and
once we dig into the code,
I'll elaborate on that more.
But there's just a few additional pieces
that we're using the big one being
JSON server, so that we can have something
that we can pull from a server, so
that we can display it.